PETER
Hi, I'm Peter Guagenti. I'm
President and Chief Marketing Officer at Tabnine.
I’ve got a long history in enterprise software,
including having built and scaled companies
like NGINX and Cockroach Labs. But actually,
I spent most of my career as a web
developer and engineering lead myself,
in management consulting, and in digital
agencies. I worked on over 100 different
company projects over 15 years doing
what we now call digital transformation.
CRAIG
And tell us about
Tabnine. You know, I've heard a lot of people
refer to Tabnine and before this call I did a
little bit of research but I'm not entirely clear
about the company's history and its direction. So,
can you tell us about Tabnine's origins, what it
does, and what it's looking to do in the future?
PETER
Absolutely. So
Tabnine is actually the originator of the AI code
assistant category. So the company was founded by
two very good friends, Eran Yahav and Dror Weiss.
Eran was actually a professor at the Technion,
which is a computer science program in Israel.
They had actually been focused on how to
leverage AI and machine learning to simplify
software development. They started this work
almost a decade ago and had been making very good
advancements, and then LLMs emerged. Back in 2018,
the team actually released the very first
LLM-based code assistant for Java, and that
was Tabnine. So fast forward to today, the company
spent, in that time building out the capabilities,
ironically, before CIOs or engineering leads
really appreciated it. So it was mostly just
selling directly to developers. There's now
over a million users of Tabnine on a frequent
basis. Millions have tried it and used it over the
years. About a year or so ago, the company really
pivoted and started supporting large engineering
teams. As a significant player in the category,
we had engineering managers coming to the company
and saying, [Okay, we want this capability]. And
they were drawn, unlike some of the cloud provider
tools, they were drawn to a few things for us; one
is, we've always done fully private deployments.
There's no code sharing, there's no user data
sharing. It all either runs in your private
self hosted environment, either VPC or on Prem,
or in a fully private SaaS environment which
we operate, where you have completely private
individual environments. They also were drawn
to our model flexibility. So we created from the
very beginning what we call the Tabnine Protected
Model. So we have our own LLM that sits under both
our code completions and our chat agents, that's
actually trained only on permissively licensed
code. We do support other LLMs; we actually have
a great model that we developed in partnership
with Mistral. We work with all the large model
providers, including Anthropic and OpenAI. But
the protected model gives highly regulated
or highly sensitive organizations an option
to only use the model that they know they have
rights to use the code that are underneath it,
which is pretty critical for many of these folks.
And then, you asked the question around where are
we today and where we're going. We've really been
focusing on innovation around AI code assistance
and other software development AI agents
that are highly personalized to individual
engineering teams. We have a thesis which is that
generative AI is great, but if you look at, say,
the code assistant category and use generative AI,
it's like hiring a seasoned software engineer off
the street, right? You're going to end up with
someone who has very strong knowledge and really
understands the principles, but if you ask them
how to do something, it'll do it in a way that's
academically sound and correct but not necessarily
a fit for you. And we think that this is one of
the things that's holding back wide-scale adoption
of generative AI, is fit to purpose. So we've
really focused in, the last couple of years, and
continue to double down on leveraging context RAG,
even customization to models and other connections
to other systems to really inform the AI platform.
So instead of behaving like a software engineer
off the street, it behaves like somebody who's
operated in the company for the last 5, 10
years; a fully onboarded, fully experienced
software engineer. And we think that's the future.
We think the more context and personalization we
can provide around these AI agents, where they
really do fit you, how you work, and your team's
behaviors, standards, and guidelines, then
the more value that it's going to deliver.
CRAIG
Yeah. Everybody has been following,
and I've done a number of episodes on automated
code generation, and a lot of the things that have
been coming out from AlphaCode to certainly
Copilot and CodeWhisperer. Most recently I
talked to the founder of Julius AI, and everyone's
waiting for Devon for their general release. The
question that's being asked about all of these is
at what point are they fully autonomous? At what
point can they generate code that you can trust
without having them operating as a pair programmer
and without having a coder make suggestions? I
know you guys came out with this Atlassian Jira,
I don't know if it's a plugin, but integration
that I think is fairly autonomous. Can you talk
about that? And then what's the process to get to
that full autonomy? Julius AI, who I had on fairly
recently, is focused on tabular data, on creating
an autonomous agent that you can work with to
manipulate tabular data. Is that where this going,
that there will be these narrow use cases that are
refined enough that they're autonomous? At what
point does it break out into more general coding?
PETER
Yeah. Well look, the way we think about this is
there's a spectrum of capabilities inside of all
these tools. And it's not just code generation,
it's break-fix, it's other generation like things
like documentation, it's fully autonomous testing,
it's all of these things. We think about the
spectrum as running from an AI assistant at one
end to a fully autonomous AI software engineer
on the other end. I would be careful about the
hype that you see around some of the tools that
are out there that are showing really fancy demos
and things like that. I can make a really fancy
demo as well. I can make something that looks like
it's going to completely replace a software
engineer, but it's not realistic. It's not
realistic. I think to answer your question, this
is going to sound slightly conflicted, but it's
important to say is: yes, there are things we can
do fully autonomously today. We released around
the Atlassian Team ‘24 event– we're an Atlassian
backed company through Atlassian Ventures. We're
also a huge Atlassian partner. We want to get
people excited in showing them a straight Jira
ticket-to-code tool, which actually does straight
app dev. It's not a, [here's some code and maybe
you can go fine tune it]. It was taking a ticket
and actually creating a full node application.
That is possible today; the question is, where
are the constraints? Where we're very focused is
we're trying to take as many of these discrete
tasks as possible that a software engineer is
working through today and take it to as full
completion as possible. So an example of this,
obviously the first one was documentation. We do
complete documentation generation across multiple
touchpoints. That's basically fully autonomous
now. You don't have to worry about that. Yes,
we believe that we should always have a human in
the loop on these things. We think that there's
significant value in having a human in the loop.
So even with that full autonomy, we want human
review and validation, just like we have code
review and things like that from architects and
managers today. That's what a software engineer
should be doing as AI works. A lot of that
capability exists pretty deep in the product. It's
for break fix, we're seeing it, we have almost
fully autonomous testing now available. That's
very strong. We've got a lot of this capability
fully developed. To the point of where we get
to where there's effectively autonomous app dev,
I think we are not far away. I think the way we're
going to get there, however, is probably through
an iterative process and a slightly different
user experience than we have today with these
AI platforms; where we actually have AI working
in conjunction with a software engineer to ask
further questions, ask for clarification,
to propose options, and get feedback,
which is actually how we work today. It's how
we work as humans today. So we're probably not
very far off. We actually have, in the lab, pretty
advanced versions of a lot of this stuff already.
But I think what's going to happen is we're going
to start building up that layer, take a piece at
a time, by creating fully automated versions and
autonomous capabilities for pieces of it. Now,
I want to say one really critical thing in this
because I think there's this– the people who are
here getting most excited about this are people
who are not software engineers. And frankly the
people who get most excited are people who
don't usually really understand how software
engineering works. So the idea that these AI
bots are going to come and we're not going to
have software engineers anymore is foolishness.
Anybody who's ever worked in a microservices,
data intensive, modern application will tell
you that the level of complexity in a modern
application is such that it is highly unlikely
AI is going to completely replace humans anytime
in the foreseeable future. What I suspect will
happen is as we automate more and more of these
tasks and more and more of these processes, the
apps themselves are going to get more complex.
It's going to unlock the ability for us to
do even more interesting things. And you're
going to see an up leveling of the software
engineer themselves to get out of the doldrums,
to get out of the sort of repeated tasks that tend
to eat up a lot of our time and more into design,
evolution, and really advanced thinking. And
I look forward to that day. If you go back 20,
30 years ago, we used to do things like memory
management, you used to have to figure out how
to write to disk, and all these other crazy
things that we did when we did app dev. As
we automated more and more of those things,
think about how advanced the applications got.
I can't even imagine what the applications
are going to look like 20 years into that.
CRAIG
Yeah. Although,
if there is this iterative process where you're
talking to an LLM, or to a generative AI system
and refining your intent to the point that
it can code something that's compilable,
that does open up development to non-coders
like myself, who may not be creating extremely
complicated apps but can create apps that the
code assistance aren't able to now. Do you
think that's important, or do you think that's
kind of ancillary to the main direction of where
all of this is heading, which is to enable
engineers to write increasingly complex apps?
PETER
It's an interesting question
because I think there's a question here on, what
is a software engineer and who makes applications?
That's really what you're saying, because the only
thing that the AI assistant really replaces is the
need for us to handwrite code. Because
at the end of the day, you think about
a modern microservices-based application with
lots of nodes, inflows and outflows of data,
and specific experiences that you're creating,
you do have to know how to architect and engineer
that in order to do that well, even if someone
else is writing the code. I started my career
as a developer and designer. I started out doing
both user experience, designing the system and
then actually hand coding it, very quickly got
out of the code. Then eventually even got out of
having to do all of the flows. However, I was
still architecting the actual product and the
actual application. We kept moving up the stack
and all those things. And I think to imagine a
world where someone who's a complete layman
and doesn't understand how the system works,
to actually go and “write an application"
is probably unrealistic, right? Because you
actually still have to understand the interplay
and interconnectedness of the data and the systems
and the components around you. I'd imagine
though, that this starts to look 10, 20 years
from now more like the way an architect builds
a skyscraper, where they don't have to go and
plan for every piece of material, they don't have
to plan for every component that goes in but they
have to have a vision. They have to understand how
these systems work and interact with each other,
at least if you want them to perform well and to
be successful. I think you're seeing it already,
probably sneak previews of it today, even
without AI: functions as a service, drag and drop
componentry; I spent a significant portion of
my career working in open source frameworks like
Drupal, WordPress, and Magento. And at the time
you could sort of LEGO snap together applications,
but you still really did have to understand
how these things worked. And I'd imagine that,
and this is pure speculation obviously,
but I'd imagine if you fast forward 10,
20 years from today the people who are still going
to be most successful building applications are
the ones who understand the total system and
how these systems work and pull together the
right componentry. I just imagine a lot of it is
going to be generated automatically by AI for us.
CRAIG
And Tabnine,
you started as a Java tool;
are you in other languages now?
PETER
Yeah. The very
first LLM we built was basically just trained on
Java exclusively. This is back in 2018. So this is
now six years ago, seven years ago, when we first
started doing this. The LLMs were very limited,
the context windows were very small, we had to be
very focused. You fast forward to today however,
and we support over 80 languages and frameworks.
We support anything that, really, any software
engineer is typically going to work with. Then
on top of that, Tabnine, unlike most of our
competitors, we actually do fine tuned models. So
we work with mostly very large engineering teams
who are our enterprise customers. We have sort
of individual developers and small teams who use
our SaaS product. But our enterprise customers
tend to be big banks, they tend to be defense
organizations, they tend to be pharmaceutical
companies, software companies, or even hardware
manufacturers. So with them, a lot of times we're
actually going and doing fine tuned versions of
our models that are trained on their code. And
that starts to get really interesting when you do
that because not only does it make the behavior of
the model stronger for your specific use cases but
actually it allows us to close the gap on obscure
languages and frameworks that tend to be not a
lot of great public training data for; you think
about like machine code for very specific hardware
companies or sort of obscure software languages
that are used in financial services. You see a
lot of that. So that 80 doesn't even cover it. I
feel like most of the time these days when someone
asks us for language coverage, we just immediately
go in and start testing against their use case and
start immediately seeing that it's actually super
performant. The powerful thing about these LLMs
is that these LLMs basically know how to write
software. So as long as they have the visibility
to the structure of a programming language,
they're incredibly successful with that language.
CRAIG
Yeah. But
then exactly that point, that they know
how to write software. That would argue
that eventually they would be able
to architect a piece of software,
at least guide a user in how to architect a piece
of software beyond the coding. Can you talk about
developing the fully autonomous Jira tool? How
did you train it? What its capabilities are?
Then talk about how do you then take that
process and broaden it to something else.
PETER
So I think the most important thing
to note, if you want to understand how this stuff
works, is that the model is only the foundation
of the house. The actual interaction with those
models is where all of the actual success is. A
perfect example of this, go and use something like
ChatGPT directly and ask it software development
questions. Then go use Tabnine connected to GPT-4o
and ask the same exact question. You're going
to get a radically more evolved answer. That's
actually because the LLMs themselves are really
just a font of knowledge. That's what they really
are. And there's this whole other layer of work
we do around context and what information actually
gets sent into the LLM when you ask it a question
in order to give it appropriate context and
understanding, plus the prompt engineering itself,
plus even just the UI/UX, things we do around
helping to structure the question or ask follow
on questions and things like that. The way I think
about this is, and this is important context to
explain the autonomous generation, if you and I
met on the street and you asked me, [I'm looking
to buy a car, what car would I get?] and I knew
all about cars, I would give you 100 answers that
are all potentially relevant to you. But if you're
my best friend and I know you've always wanted a
convertible, you live in warm weather, you just
had a windfall of cash, you really want something
fancy, and you want to be known, I'm going to
start directing you in a very specific case;
versus, somebody who's, new family, they've
got three children, they do the school run,
and they need something that's going to be safe
and practical for that. It's a totally different
context. That understanding is really key to be
able to operate autonomously because it's never
enough to be able just to answer the question, you
have to answer the question appropriately for the
use case, for the context of the organization
it’s serving, for the users it's serving,
for 100 parameters. What we do today natively
in Tabnine is we use local code-base awareness,
global code-based awareness, and then integrations
to non-code sources of information on top of all
of our prompt engineering, all the work we do
in order to make sure that the recommendations
come back really strong. So local code-based
awareness is literally looking at every open file,
it's looking at all the things that are
accessible from there, things like the
errors and other things visible from within the
IDE. Global code-based awareness is just that,
it's a Git connection into whatever your repos
are, and then non-code is things like Jira and
Confluence, whatever. So why is that relevant to
the autonomous? Because when you start giving it
design parameters, it's not enough to have all the
design parameters; it has to understand what else
it's interacting with and how else it works.
So the Jira autonomous agent that we built is
actually very simplistic. It's really just looking
and saying, [this is the design specification, now
let's actually go and generate the application.]
It makes a bunch of assumptions around language,
it makes assumptions around data storage, it makes
a bunch of assumptions that are built into that,
that if you have full context, then those
aren't assumptions anymore. Now they're
actually parameters that are being fed in. So if
you think about where this has to go from here–
and if you watch the video of the Jira agent we
built, it actually does ask clarifying questions.
We think that that's the future of this, is taking
that spec and then identifying what it doesn't
know. That's a really, really challenging problem
because AI is not self-aware. So how do we figure
out what it doesn't know and what it needs to
know in order to solve that problem? That's really
where this next wave of innovation is going to
come from, is being able to resolve that. Usually
through a combination of what additional context
we feed it automatically, what additional context
we ask for, and then what clarifying questions we
need resolved. I think that's going to get us to
a place of where these agents are behaving more
like Jarvis in Ironman and less like your chatbot
at the call center, where you're just trying
to get tracking information for your package.
CRAIG
That context,
the global context you were talking about, how
is that fed into the LLM? Do you load up a vector
database with the code base around the problem
at hand, or have you just fine-tuned the model?
PETER
In our case,
it's actually a vector database and we're using
retrieval augmented generation. What we have
done however, is we have a number of proprietary
things that we've done around what specifically
we're using as context and in what way, because
that's really the art. The art of getting these
things to respond the way you want them to is all
of the effort you do around that exactly. So what
we have is basically a vector database that gets
built, it gets preloaded with the parameters that
we believe are appropriate. And that's both based
on our local code-based awareness– so if like
you're one of our credit card-based customers it's
whatever we can access with your permission from
within the IDE. If you are an enterprise customer,
then it's what an administrator gives us access to
in their Git repo. That vector database for those
customers actually does live in their environment,
not in ours; so does the model actually, if they
use one of our private models, it also lives in
their environment. So that's all self-contained.
We basically have been testing and tuning this
for years now around what is relevant and what
is not relevant, when we think about the prompt
engineering around this and then what context
goes in. LLMs themselves are not smart things.
I think this is where we find them remarkable
because of this idea that we can ask these
sort of freeform questions, but if you actually
start using them for very specific generative
use cases; you think about, there's a great
article recently in Fortune about the rise
of generative AI in law. What you're discovering
is you go and ask ChatGPT legal questions and it
hallucinates like you wouldn't imagine. It'll even
tell you things that– it'll tell you citations
that aren't real. And it's already caught a bunch
of lawyers out in cases live. But then you go and
look at what LexisNexis is doing and these folks
who really understand it, they're doing some
really advanced things once again to use their
knowledge to check the knowledge. Eventually,
and we're already starting to do this with some
of our code review agents, which will roll out
later this summer, we have models checking
models. So we have models sort of holding
each other accountable in order to eliminate
any hallucination or identify any issues. I
think that's the kind of effort that's going to be
required for generative AI to actually be useful.
CRAIG
Yeah. On the vector database,
presumably you have that workflow automated,
that you plug into. Yeah. Recently I was talking
to people at Boston Consulting Group, who are way
ahead of the other groups on AI and generative AI,
and they have been experimenting with, instead of
using a vector database, as these context windows
get larger and larger, loading a couple
hundred pages of content of text, code,
or whatever it is into the prompt– it's not really
a system prompt, well maybe it is a system prompt.
Then when you ask a question, the inference comes
out of that. It's like RAG but instead of having
to first create a vector database, you just
put all the stuff front-loaded in the prompt.
And understandably, that doesn't really
work for a lot of use cases because
it creates a lot of latency issues.
Would that be an easier way to do it?
PETER
No. I mean, it's easier from
an engineering perspective but it's actually the
brute force method. I would argue that whoever is
doing that doesn't actually understand how context
works. Because if you're just loading that in,
an individual can do that with ChatGPT today,
and just copy and paste an entire catalog of
information and ask it questions about that
information. I think the thing that they're
missing in that is, some of that information is
relevant and some is not. And it's not just about
latency. Yes, it'll dramatically increase your
latency if you're feeding in that much information
for it to process in every single query that
you're putting out. But also, it might give
you irrelevant information. Maybe that's good
if you're trying to, say, ask it to synthesize
or summarize information or asking it to make
conclusions about a specific body of knowledge.
That's a good use of feeding that in. But when
we're talking about what we're doing with software
development, there are things that are relevant
and there are things that are irrelevant. There
are good examples and there are bad examples and
you can feed it too much information and then get
back mediocrity. I think when we talk about this,
we're talking about relevance and quality. That's
the things that we're really focused on. One of
the biggest weaknesses with generative AI today,
relevance and quality. When we're talking about
context in this place, we're not just using the
technical concept of context, but what is
conceptually and intellectually appropriate
context to answer the question well. That's
really where all of the fine tuning of us as
AI code assistants, that's where we're spending
our time. And I think we're the pointy end of the
spear for generative AI applications in general.
I think this approach that we're taking is going
to be leveraged by everyone. We're seeing it
already with image generation, for example,
where they're being very, very specific about
what parameters end up getting sent in order to
make sure that the right imagery comes back.
That also includes constraints and controls.
That's a whole other area that we've only seen
the tip of the iceberg. Which is, generation
is one thing but what about constraining that
generation where it specifically fits certain
use cases and certain parameters. That's another
layer of context that you're not going to achieve
by just dumping in a bunch of material. You have
to be really selective about what gets sent over.
CRAIG
And this RAG approach,
that works for specific, very narrow
use cases. How then do you broaden
that so that your genAI system can
do more than that particular problem?
PETER
I'm going to get out
of my technical depth very fast on this. I am
not a modeler, I am not a math PhD like our
engineers are. Let me wrap it up in this way:
it's not just RAG; I think what we're talking
about here is the complexity of how we manage the
whole experience. It's RAG, it's semantic memory,
it's prompt engineering. It's even just how the
queries are posed and what information is sent
over with the query in that prompt. There's
a lot of components that go in and what we've
discovered is it's not an A, or B, or C: it's
really an A, and B, and C, and really tuning
each of those for each of the use cases. So one
of the things that we innovated and we're proud,
others are picking up now, is these AI agents,
in the chat. So things like, [explain this
code to me, onboard me to this project, fix
this code, find security vulnerabilities],
those sorts of things. And each of those,
the reason why they're structured as simple
UX buttons or prompts, and they're structured
the way they are is because they have preloaded
capability all behind them. And once we know
your intent, this is what you're trying to do,
then we can actually go and give the best
possible answer based on an understanding of
that intention. So there's a lot of complexity in
getting this right, there really is. I think it's
very easy to sort of understate the importance
of these things and then at the same time be
frustrated with the output when you're just asking
unformed questions and not getting a good answer.
PETER
Yeah. But to go from fully autonomous, to
handling of Jira tickets, to another obvious use
case. Where are you guys going with full autonomy?
PETER
We're working through
the entire SDLC. We actually think that code
generation is exciting and it sounds interesting,
but where do we actually spend all of our time? We
spend all of our time in maintenance, we spend all
of our time in break-fix, we spend all of our time
in things like refactoring, performance tuning,
security issues. And actually most of the issues
in software development, the stuff that eats up
a lot of the release time is actually code
review. So where we're going is working on
building in as much autonomous resolution of
each of those tasks as possible. And frankly,
we're moving out of the IDE. We're moving into
code review, we're moving into security review,
we're moving into all these other areas. The other
thing that we're really focused on is making sure
that the things that are being generated actually
suit the company standards. So later this summer
we're going to be releasing a new set of
capabilities that allow you to constrain
the AI. We've been very focused, obviously all
of us have been very focused on making them able
to do more. Now we're at a point where we're
introducing, with all this AI generated code,
a potential risk with poorly trained software
engineers, unmanaged, or lightly managed software
engineers now introducing code that just
doesn't get accepted, it doesn't make it
past the pull request. So simple things like,
[we follow the Google Java coding standards];
okay, then let's make sure that all of the code
that is being generated or being refactored fits
those standards so they make it past the pull
request. That's a very simple example but the
bigger examples are: Does it use our functions?
Does it use our APIs? Is it structured the
way we write those things? Does it follow our
security parameters? All those things. And that's
a layer of AI capability that is generally
untapped today by most of the tools. But us as
the first to market, we're leaning into those
now and really saying, how do we make this so
it's even easier? And frankly, so we serve more
people right in the software development team.
CRAIG
Yeah. That's interesting on the code review
because I'm a journalist, not a practitioner,
but I've been talking to people about
specifically on code, but on all generated
content. The more generated content there is
on the internet, the more that generated content
is going to slip into training datasets. And if
what's being generated is not the best that
can be written either in text or in code,
you kind of pollute the training data. With
all of these people using code assistance,
it's speeding up the writing of code and it's
increasing the volume of code being written,
but it's not necessarily increasing the quality of
code being written. Does the code review take care
of that problem, to go through and say, [wow,
this is spaghetti, it needs to be refactored]?
PETER
Absolutely, it absolutely does. The things
that we can do right now are things like making
sure that it fits the standards and the structure,
making sure that it actually runs well, runs
correctly, making sure that it follows performance
and security best practices. And getting a human
in the loop also allows us to make that code
review agent even smarter. Because if they push
back, ask for clarification, or reject something
that is a recommendation of the code review
agent, then we're going to make that quality
even stronger. And I think you raise a really
important point which is, where's the training
data? What is the training data? Was it good? And
I think a lot of the general purpose LLMs trained
on anything they could find and it actually made
them weaker. It didn't make them stronger on these
things. So we've really heavily focused on really
curating what training data went into our models.
And then, even when we fine tune, if you don't
care about the copyright license compliance,
which about two-thirds of our customers don't
care about license copyright compliance,
a third really do. The two-thirds who don't, we
took the off-the-shelf Mistral open source and we
fine-tuned it because we discovered that it needed
a little bit more guidance around how to perform
certain tasks and what that looked like. So we
used our curated materials to do that. I think as
more and more content, whatever it is, be it code,
imagery, or text gets generated by AI, we're gonna
have to get more and more strict about what it is
we're actually training on. And, I think there's
a debate around what volume of trading data is
required for high performance. Sam Altman very
famously went in front of British parliament
and said, [oh, we couldn't build these things
without accessing all of the wealth of human
knowledge in the world]. Then Mistral comes out
and releases a model that's a direct competitor
in high performance that did it. So I think we're
still only even learning now what is required to
make each of these models perform the way we want.
CRAIG
Yeah. How do you
curate the training data? Because of the volume of
data required, that's kind of a monumental task.
PETER
It is a monumental
task. We've been at it for years. And frankly, a
lot of these languages don't change. We're doing
things like Java, Python, and others that have
been around for a very long time. So we've put
in the work already on the foundation of
these things, we continue to add, curate,
and pour through a lot of that stuff as well.
There's no silver bullet to that. You actually
have to go and put in the work to be able to make
sure that you're using good, high quality sources.
CRAIG
And does
that mean having experienced
coders read code and block–
PETER
Know what are trustworthy sources versus not.
CRAIG
Yeah. Jensen Huang famously
sort of pooh-poohed the need to learn to code
for future generations, but you're going to need
people that do that curation, if nothing else, so
that you have clean code going in to these models.
PETER
Look, I’d be careful about responding to things
that sound good in marketing that aren't actually
based on reality. And I say this as somebody who
cut my teeth building brands and building
companies around a reputation. The reality
is that you are absolutely going to have to know
how to write code, you are. You're going to have
to at least know how to read it and know that it's
performing the way you want it to– test it, all of
those things. I think the reality is that curating
the training data alone means not just that you
have to understand the code, you have to be able
to actually assess its quality and capability.
I'll give you a real example of where we do this
today. You look at open source projects, that's
a great example of this. Open source communities
are filled with hundreds, thousands, or millions
of people issuing pull requests. Somebody
still has to go and make sure that that code
reaches a certain standard. And depending upon the
criticality and the expectations of each of those
projects, that bar may be pretty high. I operated
in two very different open source communities for
a lot of my career: so the Drupal community, LAMP
stack, web content management, and then NGINX. In
the Drupal community, it's not mission critical
for the most part; t's just web experiences.
There is a standard for software development but
they also really encourage more contribution from
people who are not computer scientists. So the bar
to get into that code base is– I wouldn't say low
but it's definitely approachable and accessible.
NGINX, I can count on literally on my fingers and
toes, the number of humans who've ever been
allowed to contribute code to that project
because of how high performance it is, how mission
critical it is, how small it needs to be. It runs
80% of the internet. So you actually have to
really be strict about what gets allowed in
and what doesn't. So I think this training data,
the models themselves, and what they're based on,
it's going to have a lot of those same super
high standards. It's going to have to in order
for us to be secure and trust that it's actually
going to be able to work the way we want it to.
CRAIG
Yeah. What kind of volume is required to train
an autonomous code agent? Is it something that
a team of curators can come up with in a year?
PETER
I couldn't even
answer that question. I think the reality is that
we have some autonomy today. We're still figuring
out where the edges are and we're still figuring
out what the gaps in knowledge are within that.
The thing I would remember is, LLMs, why were
they successful with software early on? Why was
that the first use case that actually worked?
Because what LLMs are best at are things that
are incredibly well structured, are finite,
and well understood. And what is more finite,
structured, and well understood in language
than programming languages? So when we see
the performance of these models and software, I
think we're already seeing, okay, we've got more
than enough training data. The LLMs are not
going to be where the advantage is anymore,
and we're seeing it. I think we assumed that there
would be some level of commoditization on the
LLMs. We are already seeing it. We have switchable
models within Tabnine. So you can run OpenAI,
you can run Anthropic, you can run our models,
you can run Mistral, the different Mistral models;
we're going to roll out some others. We're already
seeing that the relative performance between them,
when given the appropriate prompts is very minimal
difference, very minimal difference. So give it
a reasonable period of time, the LLM is no longer
going to be the thing that differentiates the
application. It's going to be, what are you doing
about it; what are you doing to actually shape it?
If the LLM is knowledge and insight, how are
you actually interacting with that knowledge
and insight to actually generate something that is
useful and appropriate for your use case? And this
has always been the case. You think about all of
software before this doesn't look that different
from what we're dealing with with AI. It's a three
legged stool: What's the model, what's the data,
and then what's the application and use case
in order to make it perform? The models are
becoming commodity. The data you're using now to
shape that experience becomes even more critical.
That's where we lean into things like context and
institutional knowledge inside of an enterprise
and an engineering team. Then there's all of the
work; I think when we talk about full autonomy,
around what then is that experience that somebody
who's trying to build the application, what is it
that they're doing? What are they having to
ask? What additional information is required?
What is the back and forth with the AI agent in
order to be able to generate that application?
CRAIG 44:25
Yeah. Although
when you say the models are becoming
commoditized, those are the pre trained
models. But if you trained a model from
scratch, the architectures are commoditized,
but if you took the algorithms and
trained them on highly curated code,
you presumably would not need to then add fine
tuning or connect it to a RAG. It would have that–
PETER
No, that's incorrect. That's incorrect. I mean,
the thing that I think we as users really seem to
struggle with is not understanding the value and
importance of the prompt. What questions do you
ask and how you ask those questions, what your
expectations are, and what incremental insight
you provide as you do that, that is what makes a
generative application successful or not. It is
that simple. And I challenge you once again; If
you're unsure about that, go and use one of any,
not just us, any of the generative AI applications
to accomplish a task, then do the same thing
through the chat UI straight into the LLM and
go look at the difference. You can even do this,
for example in Tabnine, you can do it today. So we
have the ability to turn on and off the workspace
awareness. So you can just go free trial, Tabnine,
90 day free trial, go and use it, hook it into
your IDE, and then we have a toggle, [workspace on
or off]. Open up a project, ask it a question with
workspace off, you'll get an academically accurate
answer that may or may not be hyper-relevant to
you, usually not. It's going to be a generalized
answer. You ask the right function, it'll give you
a good function. Then turn on workspace awareness
and then you'll all of a sudden see, [oh, I
get it. You are writing a function in this way;
you do it this same way ten times already in this
application against this API. So that's what I'm
going to now recommend]. Take that to the next
logical step for writing an application. Unless
you are writing the code itself, it's going to
have to make a number of decisions and have to
follow certain assumptions around you, what
you're trying to achieve, who your user is,
what it's for, how it's structured, and what
datasets to use, and what data sources to rely on,
and where to read and write things. There's
so much that goes into that from an autonomy
perspective. Where do you think that's going to
come from? It's not going to be native in the
LLM. Personalization and having these agents be
aware of you, that is the future of generative AI.
CRAIG
Yeah. And again,
the way you guys are doing it is through RAG?
PETER
RAG,
plus semantic memory, plus
prompt engineering; I mean,
there's a bunch of components that can use
it technically. And I will butcher it if
you ask me to explain it. It’s a great follow up
conversation with our CTO or our model builders.
CRAIG
Are there any case
studies that you can talk about where Tabnine has
improved productivity by some particular metric?
PETER
Yeah, we've seen it. I mean,
even just looking at how long we've been in use,
how many developers we've had, and how much code
automation we have, we've probably written 1 to
2% of all of the world's code at this point. So
it's a staggering number when you actually look at
how many users we've had over the last six years
and how much has been done. I'll give you a few
statistics that are interesting and noteworthy.
I'll give you some that are Tabnine and some
that are just category, because it's actually
very interesting when you look at the category.
We generate somewhere between 30% to 50% of all
of the code on the projects that we touch for
our customers today. Once you get to a certain
level of maturity and using it, that's the rough
range that we're at. The productivity impacts on
that are very individual to individual teams.
So, rather than explain what I see at Tabnine,
let me give you Carnegie Mellon's view of this.
Let me give you McKinsey's view of this, or IBM
research. There's a bunch of really phenomenal
third party research that's been done around
this where they've actually done true laboratory
testing around how much automation are we seeing
for what tasks in software development? Where
does a developer usually spend their time? All
the vendors talk about 50, 60% autonomous code
generation at our peak, but how much time are we
really spending writing code, versus reviewing
code, versus maintaining code? So I love these
third party studies. According to the studies,
and they all land at roughly the same number
regardless of which tool they're using, which
is actually really interesting because all of us
are very similar in performance as tools; 20% to
25% real world productivity savings for software
engineering teams, 20% to 25%. I mean, you think
about how much effort we would put in to get 5%,
10%. To be able to save one-fifth or a quarter
of someone's time and be able to redirect that
towards your tech debt, redirect that
towards improving the application as
opposed to maintaining the application. I think
this is incredible. When I first joined Tabnine,
I've only been in the company now seven, eight
months. The very first thing my sales team asked
me for was basically an ROI calculator. They
want to understand what it was. That's how I
ended up going deep on all these third party
research studies. It was staggering when I did
the ROI calculator because Tabnine is $39 per
user, per month for our enterprise product,
$12 per user, per month for our pro product. The
productivity savings we're talking about are 50,
60, $70,000 per engineer for a product that
costs you hundreds. So it becomes kind of a
joke when you look at it, where you're like,
this is a fundamentally better way of working.
The ROI is sort of clear. The question is,
not ROI, but where and how do you deploy
it and then what do you do with that time
savings? Where do you reinvest that energy?
CRAIG
Yeah. Because it could be, as you said,
in code review or something like that, but it
could also be in writing just more code right?
PETER
That's exactly what we're seeing. So
we work with a hedge fund, as you mentioned, hedge
funds and these folks are incredibly competitive,
like incredibly, incredibly competitive.
Anytime I think we're competitive in software,
I then go look at financial services and I realize
we're nothing. The reality is they've been using
us for quite some time. They've got it in use
across their entire engineering team. That's what
they've been doing with it. What they've reported
back to us is they are increasing the burn down
of their tech debt and increasing their time to
market for new features and for new capabilities.
That's what we're all looking for. We're all
looking for that little bit more competitive edge,
that little bit more capability and convenience in
what we do every day. Or, frankly with the layoffs
we saw last year, tech debt increasing, and all
the pain that's come, if you're an engineering
manager you're looking at your teams like,
my teams are already working 10 hours a day,
they're getting burnt out, the quality
is dropping because of that, I'm losing
my best people. I look at these agents as
coming at just the right time to be able to
actually take some of the weight off of some
of these people. So it's not even necessarily
that you're going to take that 20% savings and
reinvest it. You're going to have your team,
at least in startup land, you're not going
to have your team working 10, 12 hours a day.
CRAIG
Okay, we're
up to about an hour. Is there anything I didn't
cover that you would like to have listeners hear?
PETER
You've done a great job Craig,
with covering the innovation in the space. I
think your interrogation of the data side is
very interesting because I think there's a lack of
understanding around how this stuff really works,
which I think is leaving us in a place where
there's not– there's almost unrealistic
expectations with what the LLMs can do
out of the box. That risks of putting us
into a trough of disillusionment with these
things because we have inflated expectations
out of context. So I think that's really good.
I would throw one other thing out for you,
which is actually, I think the biggest existential
crisis in generative AI today is actually, we have
a trust crisis. I think this is a real issue and
we hear it in a very different way. I think most
of the time when people look at our category,
they think of Copilot, they think of GitHub.
GitHub came in after us but with a giant megaphone
and Microsoft's deep pockets, they've been able
to go and insert themselves into engineering
teams all over the world. But at the same time,
what we hear when we talk to Fortune 500 companies
is they don't trust what those companies are
doing. They don't trust their behaviors towards
training data, and they don't trust what's
happening with how the models were built. They
don't trust that the CTO of OpenAI can't explain
in front of a journalist what it was trained on.
I can give you a list today of every single piece
of code that Tabnine was trained on. So why are
they not answering that question? Then you look
at some of the behaviors. There's a great New
York Times piece where they actually exposed the
big tech brands changing their terms of service
so they can go and exploit the data. They showed
them actually violating each other's terms of
service. There are active lawsuits against OpenAI,
GitHub and others for what they've been doing with
regards to everything from journalist content,
to imagery, to code. There's a ton of stuff
out there. And I think there's a problem with
all of this, there's a problem with all of this,
which is we are risking stunting our own future
as technology brands by not doing more to build
trust, by not doing more to respect our users,
by not doing more to respect our creators. So I
think that's something as an individual– forget
even my role at Tabnine for a minute; I've been
in technology now for 30 years, and I've been in
multiple waves of innovation: the birth of the
web in 94, the birth of an explosion of open
source in the 2000s and all that. And I've always
personally felt like I had two responsibilities.
I had a responsibility as an entrepreneur to build
a great business, but I had a responsibility as a
citizen and technical thought leader to see that
we're doing things the right way and that we're
doing things in a way that actually betters
us all. I think we are really at risk right
now with generative AI really benefiting a very
small few and hurting the others. And frankly,
I feel like that is shortsighted thinking that
ultimately hurts all of us. It's a tragedy of
the commons. So I'm hopeful that my peers and
others wake up and realize that building trust,
not breaking trust is a critical part of
what we're doing; building relationships,
not exploiting relationships is a critical part
of what we're doing, and that the real success
of AI will come when we're building
opportunities for everyone to benefit
from it. I know that's certainly the
attitude that myself and Tabnine take.